Hey, let's jump right back into creating some more user flows.
So where do we leave off?
Lost?
Well, we actually finished creating a user flow for finding the right product through search.
And right at the end we finished with the product description page and I think that's a good kick off
to possibly adding an item to the cart.
Let's just duplicate this.
Let's rename it so on, daughter.
What should we call this?
Making a purchase.
Perfect.
Let's delete this.
Let's start cleaning this up just a bit.
So hypothetically, the user has added this to their cart.
They're back at the home screen.
Let's delete all of that.
Let's put our title.
So our title is making a purchase.
Very nice.
Okay.
Step one.
Just quick before we jump in, I'm going to click this.
And right now, this is the instance that we're on this button.
What we can do is we can click right here and our panel and click the instance section so button and
I can replace it with anything I want.
So I'm going to replace it with Field.
And there you go.
You don't have to keep on going back to your assets toggle if you don't want to have your tab over here.
So we actually didn't make a navigation and that's totally fine.
I'll just make one really quickly right now.
Okay.
Let's spread that all the way to the end.
That is going to be on the edge.
Another figment tip if you wanted to spread these all across evenly on the horizontal plane.
We're going to do this go up here.
And distribute.
Horizontal spacing.
Perfect.
So we can just do something like this.
And then.
So this is going to be our car icon for now.
If we really wanted to, we can jump in, grab the icon.
But we're just going to just use this and we're going to create another circle.
So think about when we usually have something in our cart.
We're using an app that has it in their car.
We usually have some sort of notification that's constantly there to basically push us to check out.
So we have a little notification there on top of our car icon, which totally looks like a cart just
to nudge the user in that direction so
the user is able to see a cart notification that they can interact with the user.
These are tips on the cart's navigation item.
Okay, so that's step one.
Let's duplicate this again.
Step to Nice.
So what do they see now?
Doo doo doo.
Kay.
There's probably some text at the top that says cards and our sketches before we started building out
what the screen looks like.
So we kind of have some sense of hierarchy here.
So let's just take some items.
So.
Whoops, there it is.
Let's bring that in.
So this is our item in our cards.
It's looking fantastic.
Grab a button.
You notice how quickly we're just creating these user flows with our components?
I mean, it's all about speeding up your workflow.
We don't have time to go over and recreate the wheel all over again every single frame.
So make your life easier, set yourself up for success.
Okay, so I have a beautiful card screen.
Totally a card screen.
So what we're going to do here is we're going to just write a description for this task.
The user is able to review the item slash as items in their cart.
Once they are happy with this information, they can proceed to the checkout process.
Okay.
That is perfect.
So step one, cart notification nudges them.
Step two, they go into the cart screen.
Now, step three.
So let's actually give a little bit more detail here.
Once they are happy with this information, they can proceed to the checkout process by tapping the
CTA.
I know we're kind of moving quickly, but it's always good to just go back and do your best to add any
details that you think are relevant.
I like to kind of break it into two different sentences.
I mean, they don't have to be limited to that, but they also don't need to be paragraphs.
So the first sentence is what the user sees, and the second sentence would be what they plan to do.
Sometimes that's kind of molded together like we have here.
The user is able to kind of review their item in their cart, so they are kind of doing something at
the same time.
But once they are happy with that, once they've seen that information, they're able to do something
else.
So in this case, they're clicking that CTA to actually start that checkout process.
Awesome.
I love it.
And it is coming together.
Let's go to the next step.
So review purchase details is probably what we would do next.
The user is able to review any details in relation to the total price.
User payment details, user address details.
And that's probably it.
I'm trying to think.
So total price.
Hmm.
Maybe some checkout details.
Maybe those are things like shipping.
We're chipping the price.
What else could there be?
There could be like promo codes.
So we do really need to think about all those different scenarios as well.
So see how the details are kind of just coming to me as I'm building these screens.
It's never going to be perfect.
And that's honestly, it's all about iterations, about putting something down on paper or digitally
and then building off that and getting better and better and just providing an overall good experience
for your users.
Don't just jump right into the pretty and fancy stuff just yet.
So what would you have here?
The user is able to review any details in relation to the total price.
Check out details, user payment details and user address details.
I'm just going to break this off.
Once the user is satisfied, they can complete their purchase.
Great.
So let's just kind of break out this screen a bit so they'll probably have the item details there.
What else could they have?
They'll probably have some information regarding.
Like.
Their account.
Yes.
And payment details.
Maybe that's at the bottom.
I'm not sure about the hierarchy just yet.
That's something that you just kind of test over time.
You prototype with people just to get it right.
Maybe there's a field for a promo code.
I don't know what it looks like just yet.
For this checkout process, there's probably, like, a headline.
Okay.
So we have like our item, we have our promo code.
Maybe some details around the product or I mean, sorry about the users details like their method of
payment.
If they're address that, maybe they'll be able to edit.
So I'm starting to think about that kind of stuff that I need to design for and think about.
Maybe this is a good place to throw in.
Like this is what the total could be.
Okay.
Perfect.
That actually kind of looks like a receipt.
Totally unintended, but I like it so.
What do you think the user should do after here?
The user probably confirms so.
Once the user is satisfied, they can complete their purchase.
The user gets a confirmation screen.
And is able to return back to the home page.
So when a user gets like a confirmation screen or something like this, that's a pretty big deal.
I think.
Personally, I think it's a huge deal.
And I think this is where we can start thinking about, well, a user just did something pretty amazing.
They made a purchase on our platform and we should kind of reward them with something, whether that's
like a micro interaction or some sort of animation just for delight.
So maybe it's something like we can start making a note here that just says Possible animation for purchase
confirmation.
So we can just kind of highlight that there and we can just label it a different color because I want
to really start thinking about these types of things early.
I don't want to leave it to the end because it's not good to leave it to the end, especially like how
we spoke about that in terms of when we were sketching and sketching interactions.
So we can kind of break this out a little bit more and start thinking about, well, what does this
look like?
What is the possible animation that we want to build here?
If we do want to build an animation, do we want to build an animation around like the notification?
So I'm going to probably leave a note here too.
So Command C and Command V, that perfect possible animation round notification.
So I'm starting to pick out some key details here in this flow just so it makes my life easier when
I come back to this or when I'm building, I'm building this out further and that's it.
There you have it that's making a purchase.
So step one is the user is able to see a notification.
Step two is they well, they click on that notification, then they go to step two and step two would
be in their cart screen.
Look, I kind of think I forgot something here, maybe in their card screen they possibly see.
Additional items that they would like.
So that's something that probably think about.
I'm not sure if that's feasible or if we want to distract them here, but something to think about as
well.
Anyways, so step two is they go to their card screen and they're able to review this information and
if they're happy with that, they're going to go straight over here.
And when they're done here.
Reviewing their whole order payment details, other types of input fields.
Check out total.
They're able to click on this button to place their order, and once they're done that, they go to
a confirmation screen that basically gives them a high five for doing what they're doing.
So like I said, keep these user flows simple because there will be more user flows 100% as we saw.
Like there's probably a couple of flows that could come from this.
Like what happens if the user needs to change some payment details?
We can easily create a user flow for that.
What happens if the user deletes the item from here?
Where do they go?
Just keep making your user flows purposeful.
I mean, they need to have a purpose.
They need to be detailed.
So that way you can keep track of them and other people can really understand them.
And then from here we can really start defining much more of the structure of the app and also much
more of the details that we're going to need to design for.
And that will definitely lead right into us actually creating some wireframes with some content.
That's it for user flows.
This is making a purchase.